




Connections to text summarization.
























 Next: Machine learning methods in
 Up: Document zones in text
 Previous: Separate feature spaces for
    Contents 
    Index




Connections to text summarization.


In Section 8.7 , we mentioned the field of text summarization,
and how most work in that field has adopted the limited goal of
extracting and assembling pieces of the original text that are judged
to be central based on
features of sentences that consider the sentence's position and
content.  Much of this work can be used to suggest zones that may be
distinctively useful for text classification.  For example
Kocz et al. (2000) consider a form of feature selection
where you classify documents based only on words in certain zones.
Based on text summarization research, they consider using
(i) only the title, (ii) only the first paragraph, (iii) only the
paragraph with the most title words or keywords, (iv) the first two
paragraphs or the first and last paragraph, or (v) all sentences with
a minimum number of title words or keywords.  In general, these
positional feature selection methods produced as good results as mutual
information (Section 13.5.1 ), and resulted in quite competitive
classifiers.  Ko et al. (2004) also took inspiration from text
summarization research to upweight sentences with either words from
the title or words that are central to the document's content, leading
to classification accuracy gains of almost 1%.
This presumably works because most such sentences are somehow
more central to the concerns of the document.


Exercises.

Spam email often makes use of various cloaking techniques to try to
get through.  One method is to pad or substitute characters so as to
defeat word-based text classifiers.  For example, you see terms like
the following in spam email:


Rep1icaRolex
bonmus
Viiiaaaagra
pi11z

PHARlbdMACY
[LEV]i[IT]l[RA]
sexual
ClAfLlS



Discuss how you could engineer features that would largely defeat this
strategy. 



Another strategy often used by purveyors of email spam is to follow
the message they 
wish to send (such as buying a cheap stock or whatever) with a
paragraph of text from another innocuous source (such as a news
article).  Why might this strategy be effective?  How might it be
addressed by a text classifier?



What other kinds of features appear as if they would be useful in an
email spam classifier?


















 Next: Machine learning methods in
 Up: Document zones in text
 Previous: Separate feature spaces for
    Contents 
    Index


© 2008 Cambridge University PressThis is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book.
2009-04-07



