




Positional index size.
























 Next: Combination schemes
 Up: Positional indexes
 Previous: Positional indexes
    Contents 
    Index




Positional index size.


Adopting a positional index expands required postings storage significantly,
even if we compress position values/offsets as we will discuss in
Section 5.3 (page ).  Indeed, 
moving to a positional index also changes the asymptotic complexity of
a postings intersection operation, because the number of items to check
is now bounded not by the number of documents but by the total number of tokens
in the document collection . 
 That is, the complexity of a Boolean query is  rather than 
.
However, most applications 
have little choice but to accept this, since most users
now expect to have the functionality of
phrase and proximity searches.  


Let's examine the space implications of having a positional index.
A posting now needs an entry for each occurrence of a term.
The index size thus depends on the average document size.
The average web page has less than 1000 terms, but documents like 
SEC stock filings, books, and even some epic poems  easily
reach 100,000 terms.
Consider a term with frequency 1 in 1000 terms on average.  The result
is that large documents cause an increase of two orders of magnitude in the
space required to store the postings list:


 
Expected
Expected entries

Document size
postings
in positional posting

1000
1
1

100,000
1
100



While the exact numbers depend on the type of documents and the language
being indexed, some rough rules of thumb are to expect a positional index
to be 2 to 4 times as large as a non-positional index, and to expect a
compressed positional index to be about one third to one half the size
of the raw text (after removal of markup, etc.) of the original
uncompressed documents. 
Specific numbers for an example collection
are given in
Table 5.1  (page 5.1 ) and
Table 5.6  (page 5.6 ).















 Next: Combination schemes
 Up: Positional indexes
 Previous: Positional indexes
    Contents 
    Index


© 2008 Cambridge University PressThis is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book.
2009-04-07



