




Other languages.
























 Next: Stemming and lemmatization
 Up: Normalization (equivalence classing of
 Previous: Other issues in English.
    Contents 
    Index




Other languages.


English has maintained a dominant position on the WWW; approximately
60% of web pages are in English (Gerrand, 2007).  But that
still leaves 40% of the web, and the non-English portion might be
expected to grow over time, since less than one third of Internet
users and less than 10% of the world's population primarily speak
English.  And there are signs of change: Sifry (2007) reports
that only about one third of blog posts are in English.


Other languages again present distinctive issues in equivalence classing.
The French word for the has distinctive forms based not only on
the gender (masculine or feminine) and number of the following noun, but
also depending on whether the following word begins with a 
vowel: le, la, l', les.  
We may well wish to equivalence class these various forms of the.
German has a convention whereby vowels with an umlaut can be rendered
instead as a two vowel digraph.  We would want to treat
Schütze and Schuetze as equivalent.




Japanese makes use of multiple intermingled writing systems
and, like Chinese, does not segment words.
  The text is mainly Chinese characters with the hiragana
  syllabary for inflectional endings and function words.  The part in
  latin letters is actually a Japanese 
  expression, but has been taken up as the name of an environmental
  campaign by 2004 Nobel Peace Prize winner Wangari Maathai.  His name
  is written using the katakana syllabary in the middle of the first
  line.  The first four characters of the final line express a monetary
  amount that we would want to match with ¥500,000 (500,000
  Japanese yen).



Japanese is a well-known difficult writing system, as illustrated in
Figure 2.7 .  Modern Japanese is standardly an
intermingling of multiple alphabets, principally Chinese characters, two
syllabaries (hiragana and katakana) and western characters (Latin
letters, Arabic numerals, and various symbols).  While there are strong
conventions and standardization through the education system over the
choice of writing 
system, in many cases the same word can be written with multiple writing
systems.  For example, a word may be written in katakana for emphasis
(somewhat like italics).  Or a word may sometimes be written in hiragana
and sometimes in Chinese characters.
Successful retrieval thus requires complex equivalence classing across
the writing systems.  In particular, an end user might commonly present
a query entirely in hiragana, because it is easier to type, just as
Western end users commonly use all lowercase.


Document collections being indexed can include documents from many
different languages. 
Or a single document can easily contain text from 
multiple languages.  For instance, a French email might quote clauses
from a contract document written in English.
Most commonly, the language is detected and language-particular
tokenization and normalization rules are applied at a predetermined
granularity, such as whole documents or individual paragraphs, but this
still will not correctly deal with cases where language changes occur
for brief quotations. 
When document collections contain multiple languages, 
a single index may have to 
contain terms of several languages.  One option is to run a language
identification classifier on documents and then to tag terms in the
vocabulary for their language.  Or this tagging can simply be omitted,
since it is relatively rare for the exact same character sequence to be a word
in different languages. 


When dealing with foreign or complex words, particularly foreign
names, the spelling may be unclear or there may be variant
transliteration standards giving different spellings (for example,
Chebyshev and Tchebycheff or Beijing and
Peking).  One way of dealing with this is to use heuristics to
equivalence class or expand terms with phonetic equivalents.
The traditional and best known such algorithm is the Soundex algorithm,
which we cover in Section 3.4 (page ).















 Next: Stemming and lemmatization
 Up: Normalization (equivalence classing of
 Previous: Other issues in English.
    Contents 
    Index


© 2008 Cambridge University PressThis is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book.
2009-04-07



