




Capitalization/case-folding.

























 Next: Other issues in English.
 Up: Normalization (equivalence classing of
 Previous: Accents and diacritics.
    Contents 
    Index




Capitalization/case-folding.


A common strategy is to do  case-folding  by reducing all letters to lower
case.
Often this is a good idea: it will allow
instances of Automobile at the beginning of a sentence to match
with a query of automobile.  It will also help on a web search
engine when most of your users type in ferrari when they are
interested in a Ferrari car.  On the other hand, such case
folding can equate words that might better be kept apart.
Many proper nouns are derived from common nouns and so are distinguished
only by case, including companies (General Motors, The
  Associated Press), government
organizations (the Fed vs. fed) and person names
(Bush, Black).  We already mentioned an example of
unintended query expansion with acronyms, which involved
not only acronym normalization 
(C.A.T.  CAT) but also case-folding
(CAT  cat).


For English, an alternative to making every token lowercase is to just
make some tokens lowercase.
The simplest heuristic is to convert to lowercase words at the beginning of
a sentence and all words occurring in a title that is all uppercase or in
which most or all words are capitalized.
These words are usually ordinary words that have been
capitalized.  Mid-sentence capitalized words are left as capitalized
(which is usually 
correct).  This will mostly avoid case-folding in cases where
distinctions should be kept apart.  The same task can be done more
accurately by a machine learning sequence model which uses more features
to make the decision of when to case-fold. This is known as
  truecasing .  However, trying to
get capitalization right in this way probably doesn't help if your users usually
use lowercase regardless of the correct case of words. Thus, lowercasing
everything often remains the most practical solution.















 Next: Other issues in English.
 Up: Normalization (equivalence classing of
 Previous: Accents and diacritics.
    Contents 
    Index


© 2008 Cambridge University PressThis is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book.
2009-04-07



