




Acknowledgments

























 Next: Web and contact information
 Up: Preface
 Previous: Book layout
    Contents 
    Index




Acknowledgments


We would like to thank Cambridge University Press for
allowing us to make the draft book available online, which
facilitated much of the feedback we have received while
writing the book. We also thank Lauren Cowles, who has been
an outstanding editor, providing several rounds of comments
on each chapter, on matters of style, organization, and
coverage, as well as detailed comments on the subject matter
of the book. To the extent that we have achieved our goals
in writing this book, she deserves an important part of the credit.


We are very grateful to the many people who have given us comments,
suggestions, and corrections based on draft versions of this
book. We thank for providing various corrections and comments:
 Cheryl Aasheim, Josh Attenberg, Daniel Beck, Luc Bélanger,
 Georg Buscher,
 Tom Breuel, Daniel Burckhardt,
 Fazli Can,
 Dinquan Chen, Stephen Clark, Ernest Davis, Pedro Domingos, Rodrigo Panchiniak Fernandes,
 Paolo Ferragina,
 Alex Fraser, Norbert Fuhr, Vignesh Ganapathy,
 Elmer Garduno, Xiubo Geng, David Gondek, Sergio Govoni, Corinna Habets, Ben Handy,
 Donna Harman, Benjamin Haskell, Thomas Hühn, Deepak Jain,
 Ralf Jankowitsch,
 Dinakar Jayarajan,
 Vinay Kakade,  Mei Kobayashi, Wessel Kraaij, Rick Lafleur,
 Florian Laws, Hang Li,
 David Losada, David Mann,
 Ennio Masi,   Sven Meyer zu Eissen, Alexander Murzaku,
 Gonzalo Navarro, Frank McCown,
 Paul McNamee, Christoph Müller, Scott Olsson, Tao Qin, Megha Raghavan,
 Michal Rosen-Zvi, Klaus Rothenhäusler, Kenyu L. Runner, Alexander Salamanca,
 Grigory Sapunov, Evgeny Shadchnev, Tobias Scheffer, Nico Schlaefer, Ian Soboroff, Benno Stein, Marcin Sydow,
 Andrew Turner,
 Jason Utt, Huey Vo,
 Travis Wade, Mike Walsh, Changliang Wang, Renjing Wang, and
 Thomas Zeume.


Many people gave us detailed feedback on individual chapters,
either at our request or through their own initiative.  For this, we're
particularly grateful to:
 James Allan, Omar Alonso, Ismail Sengor Altingovde, Vo Ngoc Anh, Roi Blanco, Eric Breck, Eric Brown, Mark Carman, Carlos Castillo, Junghoo Cho, Aron Culotta, Doug Cutting, Meghana Deodhar, Susan Dumais, Johannes Fürnkranz, Andreas Heß, Djoerd Hiemstra, David Hull, Thorsten Joachims, Siddharth Jonathan J. B., Jaap Kamps, Mounia Lalmas, Amy Langville, Nicholas Lester, Dave Lewis, Daniel Lowd, Yosi Mass, Jeff Michels,
 Alessandro Moschitti, Amir Najmi, Marc Najork, Giorgio Maria Di Nunzio, Paul Ogilvie, Priyank Patel, Jan Pedersen, Kathryn Pedings, Vassilis Plachouras, Daniel Ramage, Ghulam Raza, Stefan Riezler, Michael Schiehlen, Helmut Schmid, Falk Nicolas Scholer, Sabine Schulte im Walde, Fabrizio Sebastiani, Sarabjeet Singh, Valentin Spitkovsky, Alexander Strehl, John Tait, Shivakumar Vaithyanathan, Ellen Voorhees, Gerhard Weikum, Dawid Weiss, Yiming Yang, Yisong Yue, Jian Zhang, and
 Justin Zobel. 

And finally there were a few reviewers who absolutely stood
out in terms of the quality and quantity of comments that
they provided.  We thank them for their significant impact
on the content and structure of the book.  We express our
gratitude to
 Pavel Berkhin, Stefan Büttcher, Jamie Callan, Byron Dom, Torsten Suel, and
 Andrew Trotman. 

Parts of the initial drafts of nbayessvm
were based on slides that were generously provided by Ray
Mooney. While the material has gone through extensive
revisions, we gratefully acknowledge Ray's contribution to
the three chapters in general and to the description of the time
complexities of text classification algorithms in
particular.


The above is unfortunately an incomplete list: we are still in the
process of incorporating feedback we have received.
And, like all opinionated authors, we did not always heed the advice that was
so freely given.  The published versions of the chapters remain
solely the responsibility of the authors.


The authors thank Stanford University and the University of
Stuttgart for providing a stimulating academic environment for
discussing ideas and the opportunity to teach courses from which
this book arose and in which its contents were refined.  CM thanks his
family for the many hours they've let him spend working on this book,
and hopes he'll have a bit more free time on weekends next year.
PR thanks his family for their patient
support through the writing of this book and is also
grateful to Yahoo! Inc. for providing a fertile environment
in which to work on this book.  HS would like to thank his parents,
family, and friends for their support while writing this book.  















 Next: Web and contact information
 Up: Preface
 Previous: Book layout
    Contents 
    Index


© 2008 Cambridge University PressThis is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book.
2009-04-07



